---
layout: post
title: Thoughts At 25
date: 2021-12-05
---

1. Peterson was right about the merits of "seeing and speaking truth". This is the self-actualized state as far as I can tell. From there, it appears our personal values influence how we express this idea in the world — I speak to the soul and of love, ENTJs speak to the mission and of progress. 
2. Anti-Natalism is the most concerning values set I’ve encountered. Whereas Racism and forms of discrimination impact people that exist today, anti-natalism is a forward projection of hatred towards those yet to manifest. It is a belief system that could end our world. 
3. Vices are proxies for control. We seek the agency to manifest our values on the world in ways we feel we cannot. When the magnitude of this sets in, it is truly painful, and we numb it.
4. He who internalizes infinite games unlocks the world. 
5. Two of the best decisions I've ever made (#5 at a startup, taking psilocybin) are the outcomes of three inputs: placing faith in lifelong friendships (Cam; Ryan), reasoning from first principles (economics; medical journals), and offsetting risk by operating in safe environments (living with Robin C;  forest hikes with friends). 
6. There is far more sentient perception in the world than there is reality. Humans have multiple concurrent stories in their head that all layer over the same base reality. In a way, the human world is more fiction than reality. The advent of the metaverse seems to confirm this. 
7. The long tail bottleneck to progress as a functional leader is your team's morale + learning rate. A company is only an idea and a collection of values-aligned humans. You cannot defend the castle if there’s no one there to man the cannons. You'd only man the cannons if you think you'll improve as an individual, and win as a team. 
8. Remove speed limits on all highways. I wish I had heard Thiel’s roadside argument on civil liberties. Humans are self-governing and drive far slower than 100km/hr during hailstorms. 
9. One way to know you love something (or someone) is when the source or the magnitude of the emotion is indescribable yet unwavering. (Perhaps this signals I believe emotion is of greater complexity than rational thought). 
10. At any given time you are only one of your one past selves and yet all of your future selves. 
11. We have to let some of our future selves die in order to become someone. For me, it requires accepting I may never see the pride in my father's eyes if I were to graduate law school. That's the cost of walking another path. 
12. Spending my adolescence trying to hold my family together shouldered me with an invisible burden and a problem set doomed to fail. Only by allowing my family members to fully own the outcomes of their own relationships can I not feel responsible for them. 
13. It only takes one person who believes in you to change your belief in yourself. 
14. If you haven’t read your religion’s source text then you do not hold genuine faith in your religion. Otherwise it would be the most important piece of writing you could lay eyes on. 
15. Three path questions I wish I had asked myself at 18: how would I live if I was guaranteed a 100% success rate? If my mom & dad would love me regardless? If I was fully true to myself?
16. The long tail bottleneck to any human-solvable problem is self awareness. IQ gaps and resource constraints are all solvable with scaled determination and time. The predominant risk to society is whether we end it of our own volition. 
17. Mimetic desire is terrifying in the same way that I see Narcissus in the mirror and feel the heat of Icarus when boastful.
18. I've decided that specific small-but-frequent events are extra meaningful and worth celebrating. Every time I see a text from Mom, Dad, or Chase on my phone, it's cause to smile and be grateful. There may come a day where my phone doesn't light up like that anymore.
19. It is better (and less painful) to admit your values and struggle to manifest them, then it is to refuse to accept yourself fully. I only learned this in the past three months. It is both crushing and freeing. 
20. Creating a perspective of unwavering optimism leads to a better life. In the face of uncertainty, assume good intentions and the possibility of incredible outcomes. At worst, you get burned while knowing what was possible. At best, you achieve it.
